Source: Delta Gamma at Drexel University official information (national website + Drexel chapter DragonLink)
Delta Gamma 
12 alumnae pose in front of a banner that says 
The Do Good Sisterhood
Home  About Us  Who We Are
Delta Gamma Who We Are Founding Members
In 1873 three friends, Anna Boyd, Mary Comfort and Eva Webb, were sent more than 100 miles from home to attend Lewis School in Oxford, Mississippi. Unable to return home for the winter holidays, they turned to each other for comfort and formed our sisterhood.
We are Delta Gamma
Our ongoing pursuit to do good is anchored in Article II of the Delta Gamma Constitution. Written by our Founders in 1873, Article II inspires Delta Gammas to act with intention and lead by example.
“The objects of this Fraternity shall be to foster high ideals of friendship among women, to promote their educational and cultural interests, to create in them a true sense of social responsibility, and to develop in them the best qualities of character.”
Paper with cursive writing
Empowering all
sisters
A Sisterhood for Life
Service for Sight and Beyond
Since 1936, Delta Gamma’s philanthropy Service for Sight supports access and advocacy for people living with blindness or low vision and helps members live out our do good motto.
Learn About Our Philanthropy
Support our Foundation
Delta Gamma member next to young child
Our Culture of Care
Empathy and Compassion
Supportive Relationships
Well Being
Inclusivity and Respect
Accountability and Responsibility
Delta Gamma sisters making a heart symbol with their fingers
Delta Gamma sisters making a heart symbol with their fingers
Delta Gamma sisters making a heart symbol with their fingers
Delta Gamma sisters making a heart symbol with their fingers
Delta Gamma sisters making a heart symbol with their fingers
Delta Gamma sisters making a heart symbol with their fingers
Delta Gamma provides volunteer opportunities for alumnae to continue their Delta Gamma journeys and guide the direction and future of the Fraternity and Foundation. From volunteering with a local collegiate chapter or alumnae group to serving on Leadership or Council, our members are leaders within our organization and their communities.
Meet Our Leaders
Three DG members holding check and standing in front of DO GOOD sign and house
A Global Sisterhood
Founded before the term sorority was used, our Fraternity has grown into one of the largest international women’s organizations, with more than 280,000 initiated members, 149 collegiate chapters and over 170 alumnae groups across North America, Canada and the United Kingdom.
Locate a chapter or group
Delta Gamma member presenting and speaking at podium
Ready to
DG anchor pin on girls dress
DG members holding up Delta Gamma anchor signs with words on them
Delta Gamma sisters posing in front of Delta Gamma house doors all in denim
Take the next step and learn more about becoming a member of the Do Good Sisterhood.
Shop Hannah’s Closet
© 2026. All Rights Reserved. Fraternity Web Design by Push10.|Privacy Policy|Terms|AccessibilityAlumnae Dues
12 alumnae pose in front of a banner that says 
Welcome to the Do Good Sisterhood.
Since 1873, Delta Gamma has connected women of impact to champion one another, forge lifelong connections and create a true sense of belonging.
Learn More About Us
Find a Chapter or Group
An unstoppable force for good
Article II of our Constitution outlines the values that we hold true: The objects of this Fraternity shall be to foster high ideals of friendship among women, to promote their educational and cultural interests, to create in them a true sense of social responsibility and to develop in them the best qualities of character.
Empowering Collegiate
Women
A Sisterhood for Life
Find an alumnae group
Delta Gamma School initiatives kids playing with Delta Gamma member
Portrait of Naggena O.Image of Stella Ormandy
Our Foundation Builds a Legacy of Doing Good
Delta Gamma supports five Delta Gamma Schools for Children with Visual Impairments, founded by Delta Gammas and sustained through Foundation Service for Sight grants, alumnae and collegiate service, and volunteer leadership.
Foundation Service for Sight
Learn More About SFS 
Our Foundation Builds a Legacy of Doing Good
“Receiving this Foundation merit-based undergraduate scholarship will allow me to focus more intently on my academic pursuits and extracurricular activities without the constant worry of financial strain.”
Naggena O., Beta Theta-Durham
Scholarship Opportunities
Our Foundation Builds a Legacy of Doing Good
“I believe Lewis Institute has shaped who I am and given me the tools and vision to take the next step and bring new ideas to my chapter, my own life and my wider community.”
Stella Ormandy, Alpha Phi-British Columbia
Leadership Opportunities
Delta Gamma School initiatives kids playing with Delta Gamma member
Foundation Service for Sight
Portrait of Naggena O.
Naggena O., Beta Theta-Durham
Image of Stella Ormandy
Stella Ormandy, Alpha Phi-British Columbia
Locate a Chapter or Group in Your Area
Delta Gamma has collegiate chapters and alumnae groups across North America. Find the one closest to you!
Find your chapter or group
Latest News and Highlights
View All News
June 4, 2026 — Anchored Through Adversity
CredibleMind Resources | June 2026
Did you know that you can create a free account with Delta Gamma’s CredibleMind platform? This platform is a well-being and self-assessment...
Blue text on a light blue background says Foundation Convention Awards with the 2026 Convention logo above it.
June 3, 2026 — Foundation
2026 Foundation Convention Award Winners
Theta Chapter of Delta Gamma Collegiate Leadership Award Honoring Patricia Peterson Danielson This award is sponsored by the Theta chapter to honor...
fallback image
May 13, 2026 — Fraternity
Council Comment | Spring 2026
In April, the Delta Gamma Fraternity Council gathered at Executive Offices in Columbus, Ohio, for our final full in-person meeting together of the 2024-26...
Over 150 years of connecting women of impact
Delta Gamma has connected women of impact to champion one another as we continue to transform our connections into a lifetime of belonging.
Learn More
Shop Hannah’s Closet
© 2026. All Rights Reserved. Fraternity Web Design by Push10.|Privacy Policy|Terms|Accessibility
Delta Gamma – Eta Upsilon
Delta Gamma Fraternity is a Greek women's organization here to "Do Good". Delta Gamma fosters high ideals of friendship, promotes educational and cultural experiences, and creates a sense of social responsibility among the members of our sisterhood. 
Contact Information
Address
30 N. 33rd Street
Rush Building, 3rd Floor
Philadelphia , PA 19104
United States
Contact EmailE: drexeldgpresident@gmail.com
Delta Gamma prelim Award Letter FY '19.pdf