Source: Delta Phi Epsilon at Drexel University official information (national website + Drexel chapter DragonLink)
Delta PHi
Changemakers.
For over a century, Delta Phi Epsilon has forged paths where there were none. Our members
unite under justice, sisterhood and love to make the world a more equitable and kind place. We
carry on the legacy of our founders by striving for excellence in our personal, professional and
academic lives.
You Belong Here
We are an international social sorority redefining sisterhood. Through tradition, innovation and opportunities for growth, our members are a force for positive change in their communities and the world. At DPhiE, our global sisterhood transcends boundaries and goes beyond friendship — we share a commitment to growth, inclusivity, and making a lasting impact.
Find a local collegiate or alumni association near you to learn more and experience the difference with DPhiE.
Learn more about the programs that accelerate our members’ personal and professional growth.
Gifts made to the Educational Foundation help uplift our membership through mentorship opportunities, workshops, academic scholarships and much more.
A groundbreaking series of online events, each focused on a different theme or issue featuring a notable key speaker.
Formerly known as Convention, the International Leadership Forum (ILF) takes place every other summer. Hundreds of sisters from around the world come together to make memories and celebrate our sorority.
In March we celebrate the incredible members — our founders, mentors, friends, leaders — who have inspired, supported, and carved a path for DPHIE today through an online and in-person fundraising initiative.
Esse Quam Videri
The mission of Delta Phi Epsilon is to provide a sisterhood experience rich with tradition, innovation and opportunities for growth.
Delta Phi Epsilon Sorority251 S. Camac StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19107
Delta Phi Epsilon Educational Foundation (EIN: 43-1661725)
© Delta Phi Epsilon International Sorority. All rights reserved. Website by Eighty6.
Our Story
In 1917, five women at New York University School of Law couldn’t find an inclusive organization that would accept them. So they started their own.
Dorothy, Ida, Minna, Eva, and Sylvia (affectionately the DIMES) founded Delta Phi Epsilon with the purpose of being accepting of all races and religions – one of the first non-sectarian social sororities to do so. 
A lot has changed since then.
Our Founders
Attending law school when you don’t have basic voting rights is a bold move. Our Founders were bold, courageous students who challenged the status quo and did not let society define their future. They were forward-thinking women who saw beyond what sorority was and knew what it could be.
Dorothy Cohen Schwartzman
Minna Goldsmith Mahler
Sylvia Steierman Cohn
Ida Bienstock Landau
Eve Effron Robin
Today, our Sorority stays true to our founding. Sisters find more than a home or friendship in DPhiE. We find empowerment to live authentic and purposeful lives.
To promote good fellowship among the women students among the various colleges in the country…to create a secret society composed of these women based upon their good moral character, regardless of nationality or creed…
— Founder Notes
What it Means to Be DPhiE
We’re a group of trailblazing, courageous and bright individuals who have joined together under the motto of “esse quam videri” meaning “to be, rather than to seem to be.” We strive for justice, making our voices heard in even the hardest of situations. We create an empowered sisterhood through uplifting one another. We are bound by our love for each other and our communities.
Being DPhiE means to belong. Being DPhiE means to be authentically yourself. 
75,000+
Initiated Members
109
Active Chapters
16
Alumnae Associations
478
International Volunteers
Our Values & Symbols
Esse Quam Videri
The mission of Delta Phi Epsilon is to provide a sisterhood experience rich with tradition, innovation and opportunities for growth.
Delta Phi Epsilon Sorority251 S. Camac StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19107
Delta Phi Epsilon Educational Foundation (EIN: 43-1661725)
© Delta Phi Epsilon International Sorority. All rights reserved. Website by Eighty6.
Delta Phi Epsilon
Delta Phi Epsilon's purpose is to provide a sisterhood experience rich with tradition, innovation, and opportunities for growth
Contact Information
Address
3411B Powelton Ave
Philadelphia, PA 19104
United States
Contact EmailE: dphie.de.pres@gmail.com
Phone NumberP: 610-613-5747
Delta Phi Epsilon.pdf