Source: Drexel University official Greek Life page — Panhellenic recruitment information

Drexel Panhellenic Sorority Recruitment — Key Requirements and Facts

Registration fee: $25 (non-refundable, required to participate)
GPA requirement: 2.5 cumulative GPA minimum to rush
Enrollment requirement: Must be a full-time enrolled undergraduate student
Rho Gamma: Each potential new member (PNM) is assigned a Rho Gamma, who is a recruitment guide and unbiased resource to assist through the recruitment process
Registration opens: June 1 and closes September 24
Recruitment rounds: Orientation, Open House Round, Philanthropy Round, Preference Round, then Bid Day
Formal recruitment: Held in fall quarter only; informal recruitment may happen in winter and/or spring
How many times can you rush: You can rush twice per year — once during formal fall recruitment, and again during informal winter or spring recruitment. Spring/winter recruitment is generally less competitive and less structured than fall.
Contact for questions: greeklife@drexel.edu

Panhellenic Council

The sororities of the Panhellenic Council host formal recruitment in the fall for all undergraduate women. Sororities eligible to take members will host informal recruitment events during the winter and/or spring terms. To learn more about the Panhellenic recruitment process, contact the Panhellenic Council VP of Recruitment at drexelphcrecruitment@gmail.com.

Register for Sorority Recruitment

Students interested in joining a Panhellenic Sorority in fall 2025 are invited to register for Panhellenic Primary Recruitment taking place September 24–28.

Primary Recruitment Schedule
September 24 – Recruitment Orientation
September 25 – Open House Round
September 26 – Philanthropy Round
September 27 – Preference Round
September 28 – Bid Day

Registration for Panhellenic Primary Recruitment opens June 1 and closes September 24. Registration and payment of the $25 registration fee is required to participate. Registrants must be a full-time enrolled undergraduate student with a 2.5 cumulative GPA. Each potential new member will be assigned a Rho Gamma (recruitment guide) to assist them through the recruitment process and be an unbiased resource for recruitment support. Rho Gamma assignments will be provided in late summer. For questions regarding primary recruitment, please contact greeklife@drexel.edu.

National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC)

The individual fraternities and sororities in the NPHC host their recruitment and rush periods at different points throughout the year. The council hosts programming throughout the year for interested students to connect with the member chapters, including "D9 Greek 101" in the fall quarter. For more information about NPHC organizations, please contact the NPHC president at drexelnphc@gmail.com or visit the contact page to connect with a specific chapter.
