Source: Delta Zeta at Drexel University official information (national website + Drexel chapter DragonLink)
Donate
Login
Housing
At Delta Zeta
We Live
Truly.
Delta Zeta is a women's membership organization with a vision to truly inspire action and impact lives globally through philanthropy, scholarship and service.
Built upon true and lasting friendship, our sisterhood empowers and prepares members for their futures with the shared experiences and values we hold dear.
Essential to the journey
are our shared values
Friendship
DZ friendships start on campus and continue for decades.
Community
Each year, on the first Tuesday in May, we come together for Heart for Hearing and Speech Day, a special day to recognize the difference we make through our support of hearing and speech. This year on Tuesday, May 5, 2026, we invite you to join us in raising awareness, supporting Starkey Hearing Foundation, our global philanthropy partner, and celebrating the impact we can make…
Generosity
Each year, on the first Tuesday in May, we come together for Heart for Hearing and Speech Day, a special day to recognize the difference we make through our support of hearing and speech. This year on Tuesday, May 5, 2026, we invite you to join us in raising awareness, supporting Starkey Hearing Foundation, our global philanthropy partner, and celebrating the impact we can make…
Curiosity
Finding the magic in science while inspiring future scientists.
Empowerment
Passionate leader supports her students’ success.
Paying it forward and paving a path for future students.
Our
Creed
To the world, I promise temperance and insight and courage, to crusade for justice, to seek the truth and defend it always; To those whom my life may touch in slight measure, may I give graciously of what is mine; To my friends, understanding and appreciation; to those closer ones, love that is ever steadfast; to my mind, growth; to myself, faith that I may walk truly In the light of the Flame.
~ Dorothy Mumford Williams, Alpha Zeta
Stay
Connected
The Lamp
Inspiring stories of members, news from our sorority chapters, and more.
Delta Zeta News
Sharing stories of sisterhood and showing the world how our values work in real life
Screenshot 2024-07-15 at 1.05.24 PM
Alumnae Initation
The opportunity to join Delta Zeta is not restricted to a college campus. We are seeking to recruit 1,902 women aligned with Delta Zeta’s shared values into our sisterhood as Alumnae Initiates before our 125th Anniversary in 2027.
alumnae events
We cordially invite you to join us at our upcoming alumnae events
Delta Zeta Alumnae
Delta Zeta Branding Session
Truly Connected
Through our mentorship program, we Gather, Share and Grow
Housing
Belonging gives us the confidence to live truly.
Giving graciously empowers the woman.
 Site by ClockworkWe value your privacy
Donate
Login
Housing
Us
Screenshot
Our
Purpose
“The purpose of this sorority shall be to unite its members in the bonds of sincere and lasting friendship, to stimulate one another in the pursuit of knowledge, to promote the moral and social culture of its members, and to develop plans for guidance and unity in action; objects worthy of the highest aim and purpose of associated effort. The purpose of this sorority shall be advanced through the National Convention, the National Council, and the college and alumnae chapters.”
~ Constitution of the Delta Zeta Sorority, Article II, Sections 1. and 2.
Learn more about our organizational structure
About Delta Zeta Sorority
Mission and Vision
Delta Zeta’s mission is to be a lifelong, values-based membership experience for women.
Delta Zeta’s vision is to be a global women’s organization whose shared values truly inspire action and impact lives.
About Delta Zeta Sorority
Our
History
In the fall of 1902, at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, six of the first female students enrolled on the campus dreamed of creating a sorority.
Together, Alfa Lloyd, Mary Collins, Anna Keen, Julia Bishop, Mabelle Minton, and Anne Simmons sought to create something special—a sorority based upon the noble principles of friendship, scholarship, and service.
Determined to make their vision a reality, they met with Dr. Guy Potter Benton, the university's president. With his support, their dream began to take shape.
From these meetings, Delta Zeta Sorority was born. The first sorority was founded at Miami University. The Sorority’s inception marked an exciting milestone for these young women and others across the campus. And that impact would soon reach far beyond campus borders.
Over 122 years later, Delta Zeta has impacted the lives of over 300,000 alumnae and collegiate members. And as the flame passes from one generation to the next, our story continues to be one of resilience, friendship and the power of a shared vision.
Learn more about our history through the Delta Zeta Museum.
About Delta Zeta Sorority
Fast
Facts
Established
Founders
Order of the Laurel
Grand Patron
Colors
Flower
Jewel
Badge
Mascot
Magazine
Number of Collegiate Chapters
Number of Alumnae Chapters
Number of Initiated Members
Number of collegiate members
Annual Awards
Delta Phi Epsilon
Delta Phi Epsilon's purpose is to provide a sisterhood experience rich with tradition, innovation, and opportunities for growth
Contact Information
Address
3411B Powelton Ave
Philadelphia, PA 19104
United States
Contact EmailE: dphie.de.pres@gmail.com
Phone NumberP: 610-613-5747
Delta Phi Epsilon.pdf