Source: Phi Sigma Sigma at Drexel University official information (national website + Drexel chapter DragonLink)
•	ABOUT US   PROGRAMS   PARTNERS   HOUSING  FOUNDATION   NEWS  CONTACT US 
	•	 
	•	
Commit to PHI SIG
Sharing values, lifelong friendships and belonging to a sisterhood truly defines the Phi Sigma Sigma experience. Our six virtues — Friendship, Faith, Love, Sincerity, Integrity, and Strength — distinguish Phi Sigma Sigma, unite us in our activities and become ingrained in the character of our aspiring women. We embrace these values when we recruit new members, as we help our women chart the course of their college experience and, as they make decisions about career, family and community involvement.
FIND A
ENGAGE OR VOLUNTEER
	•	
	•	 
	•	 Skip to Main Content
OUR MISSION
To inspire the personal development of each sister and perpetuate the advancement of womanhood.
OUR VISION
To be a dynamic sisterhood of powerful women fostering uncompromising principles, igniting positive change and embracing individuality.
OUR MOTTO
Diokete Hupsala
(Aim High)
OUR CREED
I believe a woman who serves is a woman who leads.
I will devote myself at all times to upholding the ideals of Phi Sigma Sigma.
I believe in faith, love, and sincerity.
I will find strength in the lifelong friendships I share in the bonds of our sisterhood.
I believe in the advancement of womanhood.
I will make the most of educational opportunities throughout my life
and will become a woman of substance, character and influence.
I believe in the perpetuity of Phi Sigma Sigma.
I will build to the walls of our Pyramid.
Once a Phi Sigma Sigma, Always a Phi Sigma Sigma
Pi Chapter - circa 1950.jpg
Our FOUNDING
Phi Sigma Sigma is a proud, strong member of the fraternity and sorority community because our Founders were leaders of their time. They believed that women of different faiths could come together and work toward common goals and developed a mission to perpetuate the advancement of womanhood. Our Founders charted the course for milestones that have enabled Phi Sigma Sigma to prosper and create lifelong, meaningful bonds for women with like values.
​
In 1913, our Founders approached the Dean of Women at Hunter College in New York City with a vision. They wanted to start a sorority that would promote open membership to all women of character regardless of background. These women wanted a sorority that strived to achieve outstanding scholastic ideals and maintain high social standards, while embracing diversity in membership. Phi Sigma Sigma was founded on November 26, 1913, at Hunter College in New York City by 10 progressive young women who shared a passion for excellence and envisioned an inclusive sisterhood. The result was the first nonsectarian sorority, meaning women of all backgrounds, faiths, beliefs and cultures were welcome to join at a time when that was not the norm.
PHI SIGMA SIGMA HISTORY & SYMBOLS
​
​
​
	•	
Phi Sigma Sigma
Phi Sigma Sigma is a dynamic sisterhood of powerful women fostering uncompromising principles, igniting positive change, and embracing individuality. We aim to inspire the personal development of each sister and perpetuate the advancement of womanhood.
Contact Information
Address
3411-A Powelton Avenue
Philadelphia, PA 19104
United States
Contact EmailE: betarhoarchon@gmail.com
Phone NumberP: 856-513-5773
Phi Sigma Sigma (FSL).xlsx