Source: Drexel Panhellenic recruitment registration page (Fall 2026)
Drexel
30 N 33rd Street, Rush Building, Rm 305C | Philadelphia, PA 19104 | 215-571-4454 | greeklife@drexel.edu | http://drexel.edu/studentlife/get_involved/fraternity_sorority_life/
Already have an account? LOG IN
Thank you for registering for Drexel Panhellenic Sorority Recruitment 2026!  
All interested students should plan to participate in our Orientation program on Wednesday, September 30th at 8PM in Nesbitt 111. 
Recruitment events take place Thursday, October 1st - Saturday, October 3rd with Bid Day on Sunday, October 4th. 
All events are in person and a detailed schedule will be shared prior to the start of recruitment.. 
Please note: Once you create an account and register through CampusDirector, you will be able to login to your account and view Messages of the Day (MOTD), but you will not be able to make edits to your information. Additionally, recruitment registration fees are non-refundable. 
***
Please direct all questions to our Panhellenic Recruitment Team below. They are happy to answer any and all questions you may have throughout the process! 
Julie Snyder, Panhellenic President - drexelphcpresident@gmail.com
Vivian, Panhellenic VP Recruitment - drexelphcrecruitment@gmail.com
Drexel Fraternity & Sorority Life - greeklife@drexel.edu 
The Panhellenic sororities participating in Fall 2026 recruitment are Alpha Sigma Alpha (AΣA), Delta Gamma (ΔΓ), Delta Phi Epsilon (ΔΦE), Delta Zeta (ΔZ), and Phi Sigma Sigma (ΦΣΣ).
You may access your CampusDirector profile through the CampusDirector website or PNM Companion app. You may view the Message of the Day (MOTD) on your profile, but you will not have access to edit your profile information. Keep checking back here for more updates!
Be sure to follow us on social media at @DrexelPHC, or check out our website at drexelphc.org for Panhellenic news & events!
Welcome to CampusDirector for Drexel!
Thank you for registering for Drexel Panhellenic Sorority Recruitment 2026!
All interested students should plan to participate in our Orientation program on Wednesday September 30 at 8PM in Nesbitt 111. 
Recruitment events take place Thursday, October 1 - Saturday, October 3, with Bid Day occurring on October 4.
All events are in person and a detailed schedule will be shared prior to the start of recruitment. 
Please note: Once you create an account and register through CampusDirector, you will be able to login to your account and view Messages of the Day (MOTD), but you will not be able to make edits to your information. Additionally, recruitment registration fees are non-refundable. 
***
Please direct all questions to our Panhellenic Recruitment Team below. They are happy to answer any and all questions you may have throughout the process! 
Julie Snyder, Panhellenic President - drexelphcpresident@gmail.com
Vivian Knapp, Panhellenic VP Recruitment - drexelphcrecruitment@gmail.com
Drexel Fraternity & Sorority Life - greeklife@drexel.edu 
The Panhellenic sororities participating in Fall 2026 recruitment are: 
- Alpha Sigma Alpha (AΣA)
- Delta Gamma (ΔΓ)
- Delta Phi Epsilon (ΔΦE)
- Delta Zeta (ΔZ)
- Phi Sigma Sigma (ΦΣΣ).
You may access your CampusDirector profile through the CampusDirector website or PNM Companion app. You may view the Message of the Day (MOTD) on your profile, but you will not have access to edit your profile information. Keep checking back here for more updates!
Be sure to follow us on social media at @DrexelPHC, or check out our website at drexelpanhellenic.com for Panhellenic news & events!